instructions.md, before:

Getting Started
======

Before continuing with this assignment, **one member of your team** should:

1. Set up the private repository named 'cs4414-ps4'.

2. Add your teammate(s) and 'cs4414uva' as the collaborators.

3. Clone the empty private repository to your working environment. Instead of mygithubname below, use your github username.

	    git clone https://github.com/mygithubname/cs4414-ps4.git

4. Get the starting code for ps4.

	    git remote add course https://github.com/cs4414/ps4.git
	    git pull course master
	    git push --tags origin master

5. Get the starting IronKernel code:

	    git clone https://github.com/wbthomason/ironkernel.git
	    cd ironkernel
	    git submodule update --init

6. After finishing these steps, you should now be able to run IronKernel by executing:

	    make run

You should see the IronKernel logo, and a QEMU window. 

The window as of now is only an echo shell - it prints whatever you type
into it!  This may not seem very exciting to you if you are used to huge
and luxurious operating systems like Linux, Mac OS X, and Windows that
allow users to do things like run programs, connect to the Internet, and
use a disk drive.  But, if you think about what it takes to go from the
bare hardware to something that can print when you type, you should find
it very exciting!  In fact, it even has some extra functionality, like
handling the backspace and enter key correctly. (Many of the
non-printing function keys will freeze your terminal, so be glad you are
running in a simulator!)

We want to make IronKernel behave more like a terminal so we can
eventually run zhtta on it!  (We don't expect anyone to get that far
with it this semester though.  Although, feel free to surprise us!)

First we'll have to have a prompt.

> Problem 1. Modify `kernel/sgash.rs` to make it prompt you with sgash whenever the user types enter. (The actual change is simple, but the point of this question is to get you starting to explore the IronKernel code.) 

Strings
------

The first step to having a kernel working is for it to remember what you typed into it. However, libraries like string formatting are not provided to you on a standalone piece of hardware. In fact, the only thing you get is raw data types like u8, uint, and char. So we have to first implement a simple string library to more easily manipulate what the user types.

> Problem 2. Modfify `kernel/sgash.rs` to echo whatever you type into the prompt back to you on the second line.

Commands
------

After we have a string library going, we'll want to allow users to input and output commands. 

> Problem 3. Code in some basic commands, so that the system recognizes echo, ls, cat, cd, rm, mkdir, pwd, and a new ficticious command wr for writing a string to a file. We will implement these commands in a later step.

IO
------

After some thought you have discovered the terminal's color scheme is lacking. Let's change the color scheme!

> Problem 4a. Change the color scheme of IronKernel to something cooler. Bonus points if you allow users to change their own colors. Be prepared to explain how characters are drawn to the screen during the demo. (Hint: look in `arch/arm/io`)

### Fonts

It's not easy to write fonts for IronKernel. Charles Eckmann has decided to provide a bitmap font pack in `arm/arch/io/font.rs`. However, we want to add a bit of a flair to IronKernel, so let's change a character or two to our liking.

> Problem 4b. Change the @ symbol to have an 'R' inside it instead of an 'a'.

Interrupts
------

.

Filesystem
------

Time to put it all together. The simplest filesystem just implements a tree, where each branch node is a directory and each leaf node is a file. For now, we'll only support text files. In addition, we'll keep all our files on RAM. Who needs to shut down anyway.

> Problem 6. Write a filesystem.

However, a filesystem is useless without the ability to travese, write, and read from it.

> Problem 7. Implement ls, cat, cd, rm, mkdir, pwd, and wr for your filesystem. These commands do not have to emulate their more complex bash counterparts. wr will take a file as its first argument and a string as its second argument. It will write the string to the file.

Improving IronKernel
------

For the last problem, your goal will be to improve IronKernel in some way.

> Problem 8. Modify your kernel to make it more usable as a kernel. 

Some suggestions include getting the arrow keys to work, getting pipes to work, and implement ext4's filesystem paradigm, which makes less fragmented files but gives up some speed in accessing files sequentially.

Commit message:

Crippled the memory management system.

instructions.md, after:

Getting Started
======

Before continuing with this assignment, **one member of your team** should:

1. Set up the private repository named 'cs4414-ps4'.

2. Add your teammate(s) and 'cs4414uva' as the collaborators.

3. Clone the empty private repository to your working environment. Instead of mygithubname below, use your github username.

	    git clone https://github.com/mygithubname/cs4414-ps4.git

4. Get the starting code for ps4.

	    git remote add course https://github.com/cs4414/ps4.git
	    git pull course master
	    git push --tags origin master

5. Get the starting IronKernel code:

	    git clone https://github.com/wbthomason/ironkernel.git
	    cd ironkernel
	    git submodule update --init

6. After finishing these steps, you should now be able to run IronKernel by executing:

	    make run

You should see the IronKernel logo, and a QEMU window. 

The window as of now is only an echo shell - it prints whatever you type
into it!  This may not seem very exciting to you if you are used to huge
and luxurious operating systems like Linux, Mac OS X, and Windows that
allow users to do things like run programs, connect to the Internet, and
use a disk drive.  But, if you think about what it takes to go from the
bare hardware to something that can print when you type, you should find
it very exciting!  In fact, it even has some extra functionality, like
handling the backspace and enter key correctly. (Many of the
non-printing function keys will freeze your terminal, so be glad you are
running in a simulator!)

We want to make IronKernel behave more like a terminal so we can
eventually run zhtta on it!  (We don't expect anyone to get that far
with it this semester though.  Although, feel free to surprise us!)

First we'll have to have a prompt.

> Problem 1. Modify `kernel/sgash.rs` to make it prompt you with sgash whenever the user types enter. (The actual change is simple, but the point of this question is to get you starting to explore the IronKernel code.) 

Strings
------

The first step to having a kernel working is for it to remember what you typed into it. However, libraries like string formatting are not provided to you on a standalone piece of hardware. In fact, the only thing you get is raw data types like u8, uint, and char. So we have to first implement a simple string library to more easily manipulate what the user types.

> Problem 2. Modfify `kernel/sgash.rs` to echo whatever you type into the prompt back to you on the second line.

Commands
------

After we have a string library going, we'll want to allow users to input and output commands. 

> Problem 3. Code in some basic commands, so that the system recognizes echo, ls, cat, cd, rm, mkdir, pwd, and a new ficticious command wr for writing a string to a file. We will implement these commands in a later step.

IO
------

After some thought you have discovered the terminal's color scheme is lacking. Let's change the color scheme!

> Problem 4a. Change the color scheme of IronKernel to something cooler. Bonus points if you allow users to change their own colors. Be prepared to explain how characters are drawn to the screen during the demo. (Hint: look in `arch/arm/io`)

### Fonts

It's not easy to write fonts for IronKernel. Charles Eckmann has decided to provide a bitmap font pack in `arm/arch/io/font.rs`. However, we want to add a bit of a flair to IronKernel, so let's change a character or two to our liking.

> Problem 4b. Change the @ symbol to have an 'R' inside it instead of an 'a'.

Interrupts
------

.

Filesystem
------

Time to put it all together. The simplest filesystem just implements a tree, where each branch node is a directory and each leaf node is a file. For now, we'll only support text files. In addition, we'll keep all our files on RAM. Who needs to shut down anyway.

> Problem 6. Write a filesystem.

However, a filesystem is useless without the ability to travese, write, and read from it.

> Problem 7. Implement ls, cat, cd, rm, mkdir, pwd, and wr for your filesystem. These commands do not have to emulate their more complex bash counterparts. wr will take a file as its first argument and a string as its second argument. It will write the string to the file.

Memory Management
------

Memory in IronKernel is done using the Buddy Blocks allocation system. This system treats the whole memory as something akin to a binary tree, where each requestion for a segment of memory would involve traversing down the tree until you find a block just big enough to contain it. For example, if your block of memory was 128kb large and you request for an allocation of 26kb, we would divide the memory space into something akin to:
		    
	      32kb    32kb        64kb
	    |xxxxxxx|------|----------------|

and the user would be guarenteed the first block for their allocation. You can read more about this system on Wikipedia or any other reputable OS textbook.

Even though we have give you the code for the Buddy Block allocation system, there's a fatal bug in it! Whenever space is reclaimed, our code fails to reclaim it correctly.

> Problem 8. Identify the bug with the Buddy Block allocation system and fix it. (Hint: What is the correct behavior of the memory manager when two adjacent blocks are both reclaimed and free?)

Improving IronKernel
------

For the last problem, your goal will be to improve IronKernel in some way.

> Problem 8. Modify your kernel to make it more usable as a kernel. 

Some suggestions include getting the arrow keys to work, getting pipes to work, and implement ext4's filesystem paradigm, which makes less fragmented files but gives up some speed in accessing files sequentially.
